# Risk-Battle-Simulator
Risk was one of my favorite games to play in the 80's with my high school friends. We would typically have 4 or more players, and during the course of the game pair up with another player to attempt taking out everyone else, before starting the really large battles to see who would eventually domininate the world. When the number of armies involved starting approaching 100 or more, far too much time was spent rolling the dice to determine the eventual winner of each battle. If only we had thought to write one of these simulators on the programmable calculators of the day, could more time be spent on strategy, and less on rolling dice, to avoid the long delays other players had to endure waiting for their turn.

This program address that problem square on, by both showing the actual dice throws on screen for each player (which can be slowed down if there's any doubt that someone's cheating), and bringing about a rapid conclusion, usually within 8 to 15 sec for battles of up to 100 defending armies. The code was written so that it honors all of Risk's rules for Attack, such as the maximum number of dice each player can use, which dice to compare to determine outcome, how ties are handled, and how long can the battle continue based on armies remaining. These are shown below, for reference.

* The attacker can roll up to 3 dice, and have at least one more army in the territory they're attacking from than the number of dice being rolled. The more dice they roll, the higher their odds of winning.<sup>1</sup>
* The defender can roll up to 2 dice, and have at least the same number of armies in the territory they're defending. The more dice they roll, the higher their odds of winning.<sup>1</sup>
* Battle outcome is determine by comparing the highest dice each from the attacker and defender. If the attacker's dice is higher, the defender loses one army from the territory under attack. If less or a tie, the attacker looses one army from the territory leading the attack. If both players rolled more than one dice, compare the two next-highest dice and repeat using the same process.

1. The program automatically rolls the maximum number of dice for each player to give the best odds for both. The only way to circumvent this to select less than 4 attacking armies, since the program will automatically reduce the number of attacking dice to maintain one army in the territory leading the attack.
